start contributing to open source (#339)
cncf/tag-contributor-strategy: website/content/contributors/getting-started.md

### Join the Community
To contribute to open source it's important to join the community. Most open source projects have a website or a [GitHub](https://github.com/) repository where you can find information on how to contribute. 

Open source projects often have multiple communication channels to facilitate collaboration and support. The most common channels include mailing lists, forums, chat rooms, and issue trackers. These channels allow project members and contributors to communicate effectively and efficiently, ask questions, share ideas, report issues, and propose solutions. When contributing to an open source project, it's important to use the appropriate communication channels and follow the community's guidelines for communication etiquette. Being an effective communicator is crucial to successful collaboration and contributing to the project's success.
It's important to be respectful and courteous when interacting with other members of the community.

> ### Understanding “Community” the context of open source projects

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Understand “Community” - the context of open source projects
```

Nit...
All the other headers are like "Join ...", "Choose", "Read", so, let's start this header without the "-ing".

> The open source community is built on the foundation of collaboration, inclusivity, and diversity. The community comprises a group of individuals with different backgrounds, experiences, and perspectives, who come together to share their knowledge, skills, and passion for creating something meaningful and impactful. To join an open source community, it's important to understand what the community is and what it expects from its members.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Open source communities are built on the foundation of collaboration, inclusivity, and diversity. Communities comprise a group of individuals with different backgrounds, experiences, and perspectives, who come together to share their knowledge, skills, and passion for creating something meaningful and impactful. To join an open source community, it's important to understand what the community is and what it expects from its members.
```

Sorry for nitpicking

It's also important to be open to feedback and criticism, and to work collaboratively with other members of the community to improve the project. People of all skill levels work hand-in-hand to improve their projects.

### Choose a Project
When it comes to contributing to open source, choosing the right project is crucial. A good place to start is the [Cloud Native Computing Foundation (CNCF)](https://www.cncf.io/), which hosts dozens of popular open source projects in the [cloud native ecosystem](https://landscape.cncf.io/). There's a CNCF project for almost every area of technology, from container orchestration to service mesh to storage. For instance, if you're interested in containerization, you might consider contributing to [Kubernetes](https://kubernetes.io/), the de-facto standard for container orchestration. Or, if you're interested in observability and monitoring, you might consider contributing to [Prometheus](https://prometheus.io/), which provides powerful metrics collection and analysis. Other popular CNCF projects include [Envoy](https://www.envoyproxy.io/), [Fluentd](https://www.fluentd.org/), and [Jaeger](https://www.jaegertracing.io/).

> When choosing a project to contribute to, it's important to consider your interests and skill level. Look for projects that align with your strengths and that you're passionate about. CNCF projects have a large and supportive community, with many resources available for contributors. It is very important to start by reading the project documentation and exploring the issue tracker. If you're new to the project, look for issues labeled as "good first issue" or "help wanted" - these are often small, well-defined tasks that are a good place to start.

Reviewer: Should we mention CLOTributor here already? The flow of this section suggests choosing a project based on interest, and mentionion CLOTributor might conflict with that as it is a tool that shows good-first-issues from all areas, but I think mentioning the tool here can be still useful. Most of the time, audience of this document will not actually know what might be interesting to them and CLOTributor is very useful to guide them about what can be the opportunities.

Reviewer: About good-first-issues... I was looking for a good document that explains how labels work on Github, but there are not very good documentation.
Maybe there can be a link to one of these:
- https://docs.github.com/en/get-started/exploring-projects-on-github/finding-ways-to-contribute-to-open-source-on-github#finding-good-first-issues
- https://github.blog/2020-01-22-browse-good-first-issues-to-start-contributing-to-open-source/

Or, maybe it is a good idea to have that information embedded in this document. Like, how to find the issues labeled as such.

Author: As per discussions, removed CLOTributor as it is still in "alpha" state.
can add it again later if needed.

### Understand the Project

> Using an open-source project before becoming a contributor is an essential step to understand the project's functionality and architecture. If available, follow the project’s tutorial or getting started documentation and then try it out yourself to become familiar with how the project works and its capabilities. It helps contributors identify issues and challenges that the project faces, allowing them to get familiar with the codebase and the project's design principles. By testing the project, contributors can provide valuable feedback to the development team, which can help improve the project's quality and usability. Additionally, testing the project can help contributors identify areas where they can contribute to the project, allowing them to make more significant contributions and become more effective contributors.

Reviewer: Maybe mention roadmap? As in, checking the roadmap of the project can be helpful to understand what the project is and what it will become in the future.

Just an idea...

Author: Once we have a workable roadmap, let's revisit and add it to the doc.

### Read the Documentation
Before you start contributing to a project, it's important to read the documentation. Most projects have a README file that provides an overview of the project, how to set it up, and how to contribute. Read the documentation carefully to make sure you understand the project's goals, coding standards, and contribution guidelines. 

> It's also important to invest time in reading the project's mailing list threads, community forum discussions, and meeting minutes, as well as reviewing open and closed issues and pull requests in the project repository. By doing so, you can gain a deeper understanding of the project's context, goals, and challenges, and develop a sense of the community's culture and values. This knowledge can help you ask more informed and relevant questions when reaching out to the community, and increase your chances of getting a helpful and constructive response.

Reviewer: Hmm, maybe taking a look at the roadmap can be mentioned here instead of the section above.

Author: Same here, get back to this when we have a roadmap

### A language of their own
The open source community can sometimes be overwhelming with its acronyms and technical terms. Newcomers might find it difficult to keep up with the jargon. However, there are ways to overcome this, such as taking the time to research and ask questions. Also, the Cloud Native Computing Foundation (CNCF) provides a helpful [glossary of commonly used terms](https://glossary.cncf.io/abstraction/) in the cloud native landscape. By utilizing this resource and being proactive in seeking out information, newcomers can better understand the community and its practices. Open source communities aim to be collaborative and inclusive, and its members are generally welcoming to those who are willing to learn and contribute.

### Start Small
When you're first getting started with open source, it's important to start small. Look for easy issues to fix or small features to add. This will help you get familiar with the project's codebase and build your confidence as a contributor. As you become more experienced, you can take on more challenging tasks.

### Collaborate with Others

> Open source is all about collaboration. Don't be afraid to reach out to other contributors for help or feedback. You can also collaborate with other contributors by reviewing their code, providing feedback, and testing their changes. This will help you build relationships with other contributors and improve your coding or other skills you bring to the community. Contributing to an open source project doesn't require permission. Once you've done sufficient research and have a clear understanding of where your skills can help the community, don't hesitate to dive in and start contributing

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Open source is all about collaboration. Don't be afraid to reach out to other contributors for help or feedback. You can also collaborate with other contributors by reviewing their code, providing feedback, and testing their changes. This will help you build relationships with other contributors and improve your coding or other skills you bring to the community. Contributing to an open source project doesn't require permission. Once you've done sufficient research and have a clear understanding of where your skills can help the community, don't hesitate to dive in and start contributing.
```

> Open source is all about collaboration. Don't be afraid to reach out to other contributors for help or feedback. You can also collaborate with other contributors by reviewing their code, providing feedback, and testing their changes. This will help you build relationships with other contributors and improve your coding or other skills you bring to the community. Contributing to an open source project doesn't require permission. Once you've done sufficient research and have a clear understanding of where your skills can help the community, don't hesitate to dive in and start contributing

Reviewer: "...by reviewing their code...": not only code but documentation, etc.

Can't find a good word that covers all though. Maybe "by reviewing their work"?

Author: I was thinking in the line of looking at a submitted PR, understand what the author is changing, clone the branch and run the code. Does it work or not? Do I understand that they have changed? Could it be done better? ect.

While seeking guidance on pull requests can be helpful, it's essential to keep in mind that simply asking for someone to provide you with the exact code or wording to use may not be the most effective approach. Instead, put in effort to create your own content and seek feedback on how you can improve your contribution. This way, you can work collaboratively with other contributors to achieve the project's objectives and build strong relationships within the community. 

Remember, the goal is to help the project and maintainers, so ensure that your requests contribute to their efforts and do not increase their workload. By following these guidelines, you can build strong relationships with other contributors while improving your coding skills.

> ### Technical Contributors:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Technical Contributors
```

If you're a technical contributor, there are some specific tools and technologies that you should be familiar with. Here are some of the key skills you'll need to contribute to open source:

> Programming Languages: Most open source projects are written in one or more programming languages. You'll need to be proficient in at least one language to contribute to a project. The specific language will depend on the project you choose.
> 
> Testing: Testing is a critical part of software development. You'll need to be familiar with testing frameworks and tools to contribute to open source. This includes both unit testing and integration testing.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Programming Languages**: Most open source projects are written in one or more programming languages. You'll need to be proficient in at least one language to contribute to a project. The specific language will depend on the project you choose.

**Testing**: Testing is a critical part of software development. You'll need to be familiar with testing frameworks and tools to contribute to open source. This includes both unit testing and integration testing.
```

Just following the formatting of the "Non-Code Contributors" and "Git" section below.

**Documentation:** Most open source projects have documentation that needs to be written and maintained. If you're a good writer, you can contribute by writing documentation, tutorials or blog posts.

**Design:** If you're a designer, you can contribute to open source by creating graphics, logos, or improving the website

**Translation:** Many open source projects are used by people all over the world. If you're fluent in another language, you can contribute by translating the project's documentation or user interface.

Regardless of your skills or background, there are many ways to contribute to open source. The key is to find a project that aligns with your interests and skill level, and to start small. Remember to read the documentation carefully and to collaborate with other contributors.
### Understanding Git, Pull Requests, and Issues
For both technical and non-technical contributors, it's crucial to understand Git, pull requests, and issues, even if you are not yet familiar with them. These tools are used in most open source projects to manage contributions and track changes in the code and documents. 

> Here's a brief overview of each:
> **Git:** Git is a version control system that allows you to track changes in your code, collaborate with others, and manage different versions of your project. You'll need to be familiar with Git and tools like GitHub, GitLab or BitBucket to contribute to open source. There is a lot of online guides available, ie.  [Learn Git with Bitbucket Cloud](https://www.atlassian.com/git/tutorials/learn-git-with-bitbucket-cloud) , 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Here's a brief overview of each:

**Git:** Git is a version control system that allows you to track changes in your code, collaborate with others, and manage different versions of your project. You'll need to be familiar with Git and tools like GitHub, GitLab or BitBucket to contribute to open source. There is a lot of online guides available, ie.  [Learn Git with Bitbucket Cloud](https://www.atlassian.com/git/tutorials/learn-git-with-bitbucket-cloud) , 
```

Fix formatting in Markdown rendering

> Here's a brief overview of each:
> **Git:** Git is a version control system that allows you to track changes in your code, collaborate with others, and manage different versions of your project. You'll need to be familiar with Git and tools like GitHub, GitLab or BitBucket to contribute to open source. There is a lot of online guides available, ie.  [Learn Git with Bitbucket Cloud](https://www.atlassian.com/git/tutorials/learn-git-with-bitbucket-cloud) , 
> [Git Tutorial](https://www.w3schools.com/git/) , [Set up Git](https://docs.github.com/en/get-started/quickstart/set-up-git) and [Contributing to projects - forking](https://docs.github.com/en/get-started/quickstart/contributing-to-projects)
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Here's a brief overview of each:

**Git:** Git is a version control system that allows you to track changes in your code, collaborate with others, and manage different versions of your project. You'll need to be familiar with Git and tools like GitHub, GitLab or BitBucket to contribute to open source. There is a lot of online guides available, ie.  [Learn Git with Bitbucket Cloud](https://www.atlassian.com/git/tutorials/learn-git-with-bitbucket-cloud), [Git Tutorial](https://www.w3schools.com/git/), [Set up Git](https://docs.github.com/en/get-started/quickstart/set-up-git) and [Contributing to projects - forking](https://docs.github.com/en/get-started/quickstart/contributing-to-projects).

```

Fix formatting in Markdown rendering

> **Git:** Git is a version control system that allows you to track changes in your code, collaborate with others, and manage different versions of your project. You'll need to be familiar with Git and tools like GitHub, GitLab or BitBucket to contribute to open source. There is a lot of online guides available, ie.  [Learn Git with Bitbucket Cloud](https://www.atlassian.com/git/tutorials/learn-git-with-bitbucket-cloud), [Git Tutorial](https://www.w3schools.com/git/), [Set up Git](https://docs.github.com/en/get-started/quickstart/set-up-git) and [Contributing to projects - forking](https://docs.github.com/en/get-started/quickstart/contributing-to-projects).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Git
Git is a version control system that allows you to track changes in your code, collaborate with others, and manage different versions of your project. You'll need to be familiar with Git and tools like GitHub, GitLab or BitBucket to contribute to open source. There is a lot of online guides available, ie.  [Learn Git with Bitbucket Cloud](https://www.atlassian.com/git/tutorials/learn-git-with-bitbucket-cloud), [Git Tutorial](https://www.w3schools.com/git/), [Set up Git](https://docs.github.com/en/get-started/quickstart/set-up-git) and [Contributing to projects - forking](https://docs.github.com/en/get-started/quickstart/contributing-to-projects).
```

I just realized "Issues" and "Pull Requests" below have their own header.

#### Issues: 
Issues are used to track bugs, feature requests, and other tasks in a project. When you find a bug or want to propose a new feature, you can create an issue in the project's issue tracker. This allows you to collaborate with other contributors and track the progress of your task. Many open source projects have "Good first issue" or "Help wanted" labels attached to certain issues, which are suitable for new contributors or those looking to make their first contribution. 

These issues are typically well-defined and relatively easy to implement, and can provide a great opportunity for contributors to get started with the project and learn the workflow. Look for these labels in the issue tracker and consider starting with them if you are new to the project or open source contribution in general.

#### Pull Requests: 

> Pull requests are a way to propose changes to a project. When you submit a pull request, you're asking the project maintainers to review your code or document changes and consider merging it into the main codebase. To create a pull request, you'll need to fork the project, make your changes, and then submit the pull request through the project's website or Git hosting platform.

Reviewer: Beginners might feel upset when somebody reviews their contribution and asks for changes.

Do you think it is a good idea to mention these?
- Code reviews are essential
- Code reviews are not personal
- Code reviews are very good mechanism for learning. A beginner contributor can learn what could be potential issues with the submitted code change or if there is a better way of doing things

Author: Added: Code reviews are an essential part of the software development process as they help catch potential issues before they become problems. It's important to remember that code reviews are not personal and should not be taken as criticism of the developer. Instead, they provide an opportunity for developers to learn from each other and improve their skills. Code reviews can be especially beneficial for beginner contributors as they can learn from more experienced developers about potential issues with their code and how to improve it. Overall, code reviews are a valuable mechanism for learning and improving code quality. Code is not personal, but about working together to produce the best code or documentation.

Reviewer: Awesome content!

Author: Thanks for pointing this out.

There are many online resources available to help you learn about Git, pull requests, and issues. Look for online tutorials, documentation, and forums where you can ask questions and get help from other contributors.

### CNCF Resources

> **[The CNCF TAG (Technical Advisory Group)](https://github.com/cncf/tag-contributor-strategy/)**  is a group of experienced technical contributors who are dedicated to providing guidance and support to other contributors within the CNCF ecosystem. The main aim of the TAG is to ensure that all projects within the CNCF adhere to the highest technical standards, and that they are maintained and developed in a consistent and sustainable way. This includes advising on best practices for project governance, technical architecture, security, and interoperability, among other areas.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**[The CNCF Contributor Strategy TAG (Technical Advisory Group)](https://github.com/cncf/tag-contributor-strategy/)**  is a group of experienced technical contributors who are dedicated to providing guidance and support to other contributors within the CNCF ecosystem. The main aim of this TAG is to ensure that all projects within the CNCF adhere to the highest technical standards, and that they are maintained and developed in a consistent and sustainable way. This includes advising on best practices for project governance, technical architecture, security, and interoperability, among other areas.
```

> The TAG also provides a platform for cross-project collaboration and knowledge-sharing, helping to foster a sense of community and cohesion within the CNCF ecosystem. They work closely with project maintainers, contributors, and other community members to provide guidance and support, and to ensure that all projects within the CNCF are able to thrive and evolve in a collaborative and inclusive manner.

Reviewer: "The TAG also provides a platform" --> the platform here makes me feel like there is a website or a tool or something like that. I can't come up with a better word though 🤷

Author: what about forum?
"The TAG provides a forum for cross-project collaboration....."

> For new contributors, the TAG can be a valuable resource, providing guidance on technical issues, as well as offering advice on how to navigate the CNCF ecosystem and get involved in various projects. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

For new contributors, the TAG can be a valuable resource, providing guidance on technical issues, as well as offering advice on how to navigate the CNCF ecosystem and get involved in various projects. 
```

---

### Introduction
Open source is more than just a way of building software - it's a philosophy that promotes collaboration, transparency, and community. By sharing code openly, developers from all over the world can contribute their skills, knowledge, and creativity to projects that are used by millions of people every day. 

The open source movement has changed the way we create, share, and innovate, and it continues to grow and evolve. Whether you're a seasoned programmer or just starting out, open source provides an incredible opportunity to learn new skills, work with like-minded people, and make a difference in the world. 

In this document, we'll explore the different ways you can get involved in open source, what knowledge you need to contribute, and how you can become part of this amazing community. So, let's dive in and discover the exciting world of open source!

### Join the Community
To contribute to open source it's important to join the community. Most open source projects have a website or a [GitHub](https://github.com/) repository where you can find information on how to contribute. 

> Open source projects often have multiple communication channels to facilitate collaboration and support. The most common channels include mailing lists, forums, chat rooms, and issue trackers. These channels allow project members and contributors to communicate effectively and efficiently, ask questions, share ideas, report issues, and propose solutions. When contributing to an open source project, it's important to use the appropriate communication channels and follow the community's guidelines for communication etiquette. Being an effective communicator is crucial to successful collaboration and contributing to the project's success.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Open source projects often have multiple communication channels to facilitate collaboration and support. The most common channels include mailing lists, forums, chat rooms, and issue trackers. In general, these communication channels are listed on the websites or the repositories of the projects. These channels allow project members and contributors to communicate effectively and efficiently, ask questions, share ideas, report issues, and propose solutions. When contributing to an open source project, it's important to use the appropriate communication channels and follow the community's guidelines for communication etiquette. Being an effective communicator is crucial to successful collaboration and contributing to the project's success.
```

Feel free to change any wording.

---
title: Do you want to start contributing to open source and do not know where to start?
---

### Introduction
Open source is more than just a way of building software - it's a philosophy that promotes collaboration, transparency, and community. By sharing code openly, developers from all over the world can contribute their skills, knowledge, and creativity to projects that are used by millions of people every day. 

> The open source movement has changed the way we create, share, and innovate, and it continues to grow and evolve. Whether you're a seasoned programmer or just starting out, open source provides an incredible opportunity to learn new skills, work with like-minded people, and make a difference in the world. 

Author: Updated

### Understanding Git, Pull Requests, and Issues
For both technical and non-technical contributors, it's crucial to understand Git, pull requests, and issues, even if you are not yet familiar with them. These tools are used in most open source projects to manage contributions and track changes in the code and documents. 

Here's a brief overview of each:

#### Git
Git is a version control system that allows you to track changes in your code, collaborate with others, and manage different versions of your project. You'll need to be familiar with Git and tools like GitHub, GitLab or BitBucket to contribute to open source. There is a lot of online guides available, ie.  [Learn Git with Bitbucket Cloud](https://www.atlassian.com/git/tutorials/learn-git-with-bitbucket-cloud), [Git Tutorial](https://www.w3schools.com/git/), [Set up Git](https://docs.github.com/en/get-started/quickstart/set-up-git) and [Contributing to projects - forking](https://docs.github.com/en/get-started/quickstart/contributing-to-projects).

> #### Issues: 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Issues
```

Issues are used to track bugs, feature requests, and other tasks in a project. When you find a bug or want to propose a new feature, you can create an issue in the project's issue tracker. This allows you to collaborate with other contributors and track the progress of your task. Many open source projects have "Good first issue" or "Help wanted" labels attached to certain issues, which are suitable for new contributors or those looking to make their first contribution. 

These issues are typically well-defined and relatively easy to implement, and can provide a great opportunity for contributors to get started with the project and learn the workflow. Look for these labels in the issue tracker and consider starting with them if you are new to the project or open source contribution in general.

> #### Pull Requests: 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Pull Requests
```

Pull requests are a way to propose changes to a project. When you submit a pull request, you're asking the project maintainers to review your code or document changes and consider merging it into the main codebase. To create a pull request, you'll need to fork the project, make your changes, and then submit the pull request through the project's website or Git hosting platform.

> Code reviews are an essential part of the software development process as they help catch potential issues before they become problems. It's important to remember that code reviews are not personal and should not be taken as criticism of the developer. Instead, they provide an opportunity for developers to learn from each other and improve their skills. Code reviews can be especially beneficial for beginner contributors as they can learn from more experienced developers about potential issues with their code and how to improve it. Overall, code reviews are a valuable mechanism for learning and improving code quality. Code is about working together to produce the best code or documentation. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Code reviews are an essential part of the software development process as they help catch potential issues before they become problems. It's important to remember that code reviews are not personal and should not be taken as criticism of the contributor. Instead, they provide an opportunity for contributors to learn from each other and improve their skills. Code reviews can be especially beneficial for beginner contributors as they can learn from more experienced contributors about potential issues with their code and how to improve it. Overall, code reviews are a valuable mechanism for learning and improving code quality. Code is about working together to produce the best code or documentation. 
```

> Code reviews are an essential part of the software development process as they help catch potential issues before they become problems. It's important to remember that code reviews are not personal and should not be taken as criticism of the contributor. Instead, they provide an opportunity for contributors to learn from each other and improve their skills. Code reviews can be especially beneficial for beginner contributors as they can learn from more experienced contributors about potential issues with their code and how to improve it. Overall, code reviews are a valuable mechanism for learning and improving code quality. Code is about working together to produce the best code or documentation. 

Reviewer: Can we also mention here that things might take some time? I've had situations where the contributor was really upset because they were unaware of the timezone differences / country specific holidays / team stress (releases, deadlines, etc.). They thought they were not taken seriously. Also, code reviews are async and might take time in general even without any special issues.

Author: Added:
It's important to keep in mind that things might take some time when it comes to code reviews. Asynchronous communication is the norm for code reviews, and it can take time for reviewers to provide feedback. Additionally, there may be factors outside of the review process that can impact response times, such as timezone differences, country-specific holidays, and team stress related to releases or deadlines. It's not uncommon for contributors to become frustrated when they are unaware of these factors and feel that they are not being taken seriously. However, it's essential to maintain open communication and trust between contributors and reviewers, as this can help alleviate any misunderstandings and ensure that the review process remains productive and efficient.

---

> title: Do you want to start contributing to open source and do not know where to start?

Reviewer 2: You can see a preview of your article at https://deploy-preview-339--cncf-contribute.netlify.app/contributors/

```suggestion
title: Do you want to start contributing to open source and do not know where to start?
linkTitle: Start Contributing to Open Source
```

This is what the navigation looks like now, and when the `linkTitle` is set, the navigation will show the shorter text from my suggestion. Hopefully it still calls out to the right people to click through and read.

<img width="372" alt="Screenshot 2023-03-10 at 10 06 15 AM" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/1368985/224365087-2d291d2f-3cb2-413a-9cb1-691974d33e85.png">

---

### Introduction
Open source is more than just a way of building software - it's a philosophy that promotes collaboration, transparency, and community. By sharing code openly, developers from all over the world can contribute their skills, knowledge, and creativity to projects that are used by millions of people every day. 

The open source movement has changed the way we create, share, and innovate, and it continues to grow and evolve. Whether you're a seasoned programmer or just starting out, open source provides an incredible opportunity to learn new skills, work with like-minded people, and make a difference in the world. 

In this document, we'll explore the different ways you can get involved in open source, what knowledge you need to contribute, and how you can become part of this amazing community. So, let's dive in and discover the exciting world of open source!

### Join the Community

> To contribute to open source it's important to join the community. Most open source projects have a website or a [GitHub](https://github.com/) repository where you can find information on how to contribute. 

Author: Update, thanks

> Open source projects often have multiple communication channels to facilitate collaboration and support. The most common channels include mailing lists, forums, chat rooms, and issue trackers. In general, these communication channels are listed on the websites or the repositories of the projects. These channels allow project members and contributors to communicate effectively and efficiently, ask questions, share ideas, report issues, and propose solutions. When contributing to an open source project, it's important to use the appropriate communication channels and follow the community's guidelines for communication etiquette. Being an effective communicator is crucial to successful collaboration and contributing to the project's success.

Reviewer 3: I think the CNCF falls on the side of "open source"

Here's a style guide from a while ago that touches on it: https://www.cncf.io/blog/2018/09/04/the-cloud-native-computing-foundation-cncf-style-guide/

> Open source projects often have multiple communication channels to facilitate collaboration and support. The most common channels include mailing lists, forums, chat rooms, and issue trackers. In general, these communication channels are listed on the websites or the repositories of the projects. These channels allow project members and contributors to communicate effectively and efficiently, ask questions, share ideas, report issues, and propose solutions. When contributing to an open source project, it's important to use the appropriate communication channels and follow the community's guidelines for communication etiquette. Being an effective communicator is crucial to successful collaboration and contributing to the project's success.

Author: Thanks for this. @carolynvs the way I ready @nate-double-u 's style guide referance I agree with you.
Trust all is updated e.g. "open-source project", "open-source software", "open-source community"  and "Open source is more than just a way of building software", "To contribute to open source it's important"

> Open source projects often have multiple communication channels to facilitate collaboration and support. The most common channels include mailing lists, forums, chat rooms, and issue trackers. In general, these communication channels are listed on the websites or the repositories of the projects. These channels allow project members and contributors to communicate effectively and efficiently, ask questions, share ideas, report issues, and propose solutions. When contributing to an open source project, it's important to use the appropriate communication channels and follow the community's guidelines for communication etiquette. Being an effective communicator is crucial to successful collaboration and contributing to the project's success.

Author: Update, thanks

> Open source projects often have multiple communication channels to facilitate collaboration and support. The most common channels include mailing lists, forums, chat rooms, and issue trackers. In general, these communication channels are listed on the websites or the repositories of the projects. These channels allow project members and contributors to communicate effectively and efficiently, ask questions, share ideas, report issues, and propose solutions. When contributing to an open source project, it's important to use the appropriate communication channels and follow the community's guidelines for communication etiquette. Being an effective communicator is crucial to successful collaboration and contributing to the project's success.

Reviewer 3: Unresolving because I think we should go through and use "open source" consistently, and without the hyphen.

See also https://github.com/cncf/foundation/blob/main/style-guide.md

It's important to be respectful and courteous when interacting with other members of the community.

### Understand “Community” - the context of open source projects

> Open source communities are built on the foundation of collaboration, inclusivity, and diversity. Communities comprise a group of individuals with different backgrounds, experiences, and perspectives, who come together to share their knowledge, skills, and passion for creating something meaningful and impactful. To join an open source community, it's important to understand what the community is and what it expects from its members.

Author: Updated. Thanks

Open-source communities are built on a foundation of collaboration, inclusivity, and diversity. Communities comprise a group of individuals with different backgrounds, experiences, and perspectives, who come together to share their knowledge, skills, and passion for creating something meaningful and impactful. To join an open-source community, it's important to understand what the community is and what it expects from its members.

> The community is not just a group of people working on a project but rather a living and breathing entity that expects respectful and courteous behavior from its members. It's crucial to be aware of cultural differences and to embrace the genuine spirit of community-based consideration for others. This means being patient, empathetic, helpful, and striving to create an envirThis includes following the project's code of conduct, adheringonment where everyone feels valued and supported.

Reviewer 4: This sentence does not seem finished.

It's also important to be open to feedback and criticism, and to work collaboratively with other members of the community to improve the project. People of all skill levels work hand-in-hand to improve their projects.

### Choose a Project
When it comes to contributing to open source, choosing the right project is crucial. A good place to start is the [Cloud Native Computing Foundation (CNCF)](https://www.cncf.io/), which hosts dozens of popular open source projects in the [cloud native ecosystem](https://landscape.cncf.io/). There's a CNCF project for almost every area of technology, from container orchestration to service mesh to storage. For instance, if you're interested in containerization, you might consider contributing to [Kubernetes](https://kubernetes.io/), the de-facto standard for container orchestration. Or, if you're interested in observability and monitoring, you might consider contributing to [Prometheus](https://prometheus.io/), which provides powerful metrics collection and analysis. Other popular CNCF projects include [Envoy](https://www.envoyproxy.io/), [Fluentd](https://www.fluentd.org/), and [Jaeger](https://www.jaegertracing.io/).

> When choosing a project to contribute to, it's important to consider your interests and skill level. Look for projects that align with your strengths and that you're passionate about. CNCF projects have a large and supportive community, with many resources available for contributors. It is very important to start by reading the project documentation and exploring the issue tracker. If you're new to the project, look for issues labeled as "good first issue" or "help wanted" - these are often small, well-defined tasks that are a good place to start.

Reviewer 2: Do we know if clotributor ready for us to link to when we mention "help wanted" and "good first issues"? 

https://clotributor.dev

It's a site that highlights those issues across CNCF projects.

Author: Removed CLOTributor. Can add it later when it is further developed

### Understand the Project

> Using an open-source project before becoming a contributor is an essential step to understand the project's functionality and architecture. If available, follow the project’s tutorial or getting started documentation and then try it out yourself to become familiar with how the project works and its capabilities. It helps contributors identify issues and challenges that the project faces, allowing them to get familiar with the codebase and the project's design principles. By testing the project, contributors can provide valuable feedback to the development team, which can help improve the project's quality and usability. Additionally, testing the project can help contributors identify areas where they can contribute to the project, allowing them to make more significant contributions and become more effective contributors.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Using an open source project before becoming a contributor is an essential step to understand the project's functionality and architecture. If available, follow the project’s tutorial or getting started documentation and then try it out yourself to become familiar with how the project works and its capabilities. It helps contributors identify issues and challenges that the project faces, allowing them to get familiar with the codebase and the project's design principles. By testing the project, contributors can provide valuable feedback to the development team, which can help improve the project's quality and usability. Additionally, testing the project can help contributors identify areas where they can contribute to the project, allowing them to make more significant contributions and become more effective contributors.
```

Author: Updated, Thanks

### Read the Documentation
Before you start contributing to a project, it's important to read the documentation. Most projects have a README file that provides an overview of the project, how to set it up, and how to contribute. Read the documentation carefully to make sure you understand the project's goals, coding standards, and contribution guidelines. 

It's also important to invest time in reading the project's mailing list threads, community forum discussions, and meeting minutes, as well as reviewing open and closed issues and pull requests in the project repository. By doing so, you can gain a deeper understanding of the project's context, goals, and challenges, and develop a sense of the community's culture and values. This knowledge can help you ask more informed and relevant questions when reaching out to the community, and increase your chances of getting a helpful and constructive response.

### A language of their own

> The open source community can sometimes be overwhelming with its acronyms and technical terms. Newcomers might find it difficult to keep up with the jargon. However, there are ways to overcome this, such as taking the time to research and ask questions. Also, the Cloud Native Computing Foundation (CNCF) provides a helpful [glossary of commonly used terms](https://glossary.cncf.io/abstraction/) in the cloud native landscape. By utilizing this resource and being proactive in seeking out information, newcomers can better understand the community and its practices. Open source communities aim to be collaborative and inclusive, and its members are generally welcoming to those who are willing to learn and contribute.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The open source community can sometimes be overwhelming with its acronyms and technical terms. Newcomers might find it difficult to keep up with the jargon. However, there are ways to overcome this, such as taking the time to research and ask questions. Also, the Cloud Native Computing Foundation (CNCF) provides a helpful [glossary of commonly used terms](https://glossary.cncf.io/abstraction/) in the cloud native landscape. By utilizing this resource and proactively seeking information, newcomers can better understand the community and its practices. Open source communities aim to be collaborative and inclusive, and their members are generally welcoming to those willing to learn and contribute.
```

Author: Added, thanks

### Start Small
When you're first getting started with open source, it's important to start small. Look for easy issues to fix or small features to add. This will help you get familiar with the project's codebase and build your confidence as a contributor. As you become more experienced, you can take on more challenging tasks.

### Collaborate with Others

> Open source is all about collaboration. Don't be afraid to reach out to other contributors for help or feedback. You can also collaborate with other contributors by reviewing their code, providing feedback, and testing their changes. This will help you build relationships with other contributors and improve your coding or other skills you bring to the community. Contributing to an open source project doesn't require permission. Once you've done sufficient research and have a clear understanding of where your skills can help the community, don't hesitate to dive in and start contributing.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Open source is all about collaboration. Don't be afraid to reach out to other contributors for help or feedback. You can also collaborate with other contributors by reviewing their code, providing feedback, and testing their changes. This will help you build relationships with other contributors and improve your coding or other skills you bring to the community. Contributing to an open source project doesn't require permission. Once you've done sufficient research and clearly understand where your skills can help the community, don't hesitate to dive in and start contributing.
```

Author: Added. Thanks

### Asking for help

> Getting help from other contributors is a critical aspect of contributing to open source projects, but it's essential to know how much help is appropriate to ask for. It's okay to ask for assistance if you've made a genuine effort to learn the material beforehand, such as reading the documentation or using the software. Try to limit your requests to project-specific issues and avoid seeking help for general mentoring in open source or programming languages. 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Getting help from other contributors is a critical aspect of contributing to open source projects. Still, it's essential to know how much help is appropriate to ask for. It's okay to ask for assistance if you've made a genuine effort to learn the material beforehand, such as reading the documentation or using the software. Try to limit your requests to project-specific issues and avoid seeking help for general mentoring in open source or programming languages. 
```

Author: Updated, thanks

> While seeking guidance on pull requests can be helpful, it's essential to keep in mind that simply asking for someone to provide you with the exact code or wording to use may not be the most effective approach. Instead, put in effort to create your own content and seek feedback on how you can improve your contribution. This way, you can work collaboratively with other contributors to achieve the project's objectives and build strong relationships within the community. 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
While seeking guidance on pull requests can be helpful, it's essential to remember that there may be more effective approaches than simply asking someone to provide you with the exact code or wording to use. Instead, try to create your own content and seek feedback on improving your contribution. This way, you can work collaboratively with other contributors to achieve the project's objectives and build strong relationships within the community.
```

Remember, the goal is to help the project and maintainers, so ensure that your requests contribute to their efforts and do not increase their workload. By following these guidelines, you can build strong relationships with other contributors while improving your coding skills.

> ### Technical Contributors

Reviewer 2: Should this use "Code Contributors" here in contrast to using "non-code contributors" below? 🤔

Author: Agree, "Code Contributors" is better. updated.

If you're a technical contributor, there are some specific tools and technologies that you should be familiar with. Here are some of the key skills you'll need to contribute to open source:

**Programming Languages**: Most open source projects are written in one or more programming languages. You'll need to be proficient in at least one language to contribute to a project. The specific language will depend on the project you choose.

**Testing**: Testing is a critical part of software development. You'll need to be familiar with testing frameworks and tools to contribute to open source. This includes both unit testing and integration testing.

### Non-Code Contributors
Even if you're not a technical contributor, there are still many ways you can contribute to open source. Here are some of the key skills you'll need:

> **Documentation:** Most open source projects have documentation that needs to be written and maintained. If you're a good writer, you can contribute by writing documentation, tutorials or blog posts.

Reviewer 3: Not just if they're already good, contributing can be a way to get good :)
```suggestion
**Documentation:** Most open source projects have documentation that needs to be written and maintained. If you're interested in writing, you can contribute by writing documentation, tutorials, or blog posts.
```

Author: Fixed, thanks

**Design:** If you're a designer, you can contribute to open source by creating graphics, logos, or improving the website

> **Translation:** Many open source projects are used by people all over the world. If you're fluent in another language, you can contribute by translating the project's documentation or user interface.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
**Translation:** Many open source projects are used by people worldwide. You can contribute by translating the project's documentation or user interface if you're fluent in multiple languages.
```

Author: Updated, thanks

> Regardless of your skills or background, there are many ways to contribute to open source. The key is to find a project that aligns with your interests and skill level, and to start small. Remember to read the documentation carefully and to collaborate with other contributors.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Regardless of your skills or background, there are many ways to contribute to open source. The key is to find a project that aligns with your interests and skill level and to start small. Remember to read the documentation carefully and to collaborate with other contributors.
```

Author: removed, thanks

### Understanding Git, Pull Requests, and Issues
For both technical and non-technical contributors, it's crucial to understand Git, pull requests, and issues, even if you are not yet familiar with them. These tools are used in most open source projects to manage contributions and track changes in the code and documents. 

Here's a brief overview of each:

#### Git

> Git is a version control system that allows you to track changes in your code, collaborate with others, and manage different versions of your project. You'll need to be familiar with Git and tools like GitHub, GitLab or BitBucket to contribute to open source. There is a lot of online guides available, ie.  [Learn Git with Bitbucket Cloud](https://www.atlassian.com/git/tutorials/learn-git-with-bitbucket-cloud), [Git Tutorial](https://www.w3schools.com/git/), [Set up Git](https://docs.github.com/en/get-started/quickstart/set-up-git) and [Contributing to projects - forking](https://docs.github.com/en/get-started/quickstart/contributing-to-projects).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Git is a version control system that allows you to track changes in your code, collaborate with others, and manage different versions of your project. You'll need to be familiar with Git and tools like GitHub, GitLab, or BitBucket to contribute to open source. There are a lot of online guides available, ie. [Learn Git with Bitbucket Cloud](https://www.atlassian.com/git/tutorials/learn-git-with-bitbucket-cloud), [Git Tutorial](https://www.w3schools.com/git/), [Set up Git](https://docs.github.com/en/get-started/quickstart/set-up-git), and [Contributing to projects - forking](https://docs.github.com/en/get-started/quickstart/contributing-to-projects).
```

#### Issues
Issues are used to track bugs, feature requests, and other tasks in a project. When you find a bug or want to propose a new feature, you can create an issue in the project's issue tracker. This allows you to collaborate with other contributors and track the progress of your task. Many open source projects have "Good first issue" or "Help wanted" labels attached to certain issues, which are suitable for new contributors or those looking to make their first contribution. 

> These issues are typically well-defined and relatively easy to implement, and can provide a great opportunity for contributors to get started with the project and learn the workflow. Look for these labels in the issue tracker and consider starting with them if you are new to the project or open source contribution in general.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
These issues are typically well-defined and relatively easy to implement. They can provide a great opportunity for contributors to get started with the project and learn the workflow. Look for these labels in the issue tracker and consider starting with them if you are new to the project or open source contribution in general.
```

Author: Updated, thanks

#### Pull Requests
Pull requests are a way to propose changes to a project. When you submit a pull request, you're asking the project maintainers to review your code or document changes and consider merging it into the main codebase. To create a pull request, you'll need to fork the project, make your changes, and then submit the pull request through the project's website or Git hosting platform.

> Code reviews are an essential part of the software development process as they help catch potential issues before they become problems. It's important to remember that code reviews are not personal and should not be taken as criticism of the contributor. Instead, they provide an opportunity for contributors to learn from each other and improve their skills. Code reviews can be especially beneficial for beginner contributors as they can learn from more experienced contributors about potential issues with their code and how to improve it. Overall, code reviews are a valuable mechanism for learning and improving code quality. Code is about working together to produce the best code or documentation.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Code reviews are essential to the software development process as they help catch potential issues before they become problems. It's important to remember that code reviews are not personal and should not be taken as criticism of the contributor. Instead, they allow contributors to learn from each other and improve their skills. Code reviews can be especially beneficial for beginner contributors as they can learn from more experienced contributors about potential issues with their code and how to improve it. Code reviews are a valuable mechanism for learning and improving code quality. Code is about working together to produce the best code or documentation.
```

> It's important to keep in mind that things might take some time when it comes to code reviews. Asynchronous communication is the norm for code reviews, and it can take time for reviewers to provide feedback. Additionally, there may be factors outside of the review process that can impact response times, such as timezone differences, country-specific holidays, and team stress related to releases or deadlines. It's not uncommon for contributors to become frustrated when they are unaware of these factors and feel that they are not being taken seriously. However, it's essential to maintain open communication and trust between contributors and reviewers, as this can help alleviate any misunderstandings and ensure that the review process remains productive and efficient.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
It's important to remember that things might take some time when it comes to code reviews. Asynchronous communication is the norm for code reviews, and it can take time for reviewers to provide feedback. Additionally, factors outside the review process may impact response times, such as timezone differences, country-specific holidays, and team stress related to releases or deadlines. It's not uncommon for contributors to become frustrated when they are unaware of these factors and feel that they are not being taken seriously. However, it's essential to maintain open communication and trust between contributors and reviewers, as this can help alleviate any misunderstandings and ensure that the review process remains productive and efficient.
```

> There are many online resources available to help you learn about Git, pull requests, and issues. Look for online tutorials, documentation, and forums where you can ask questions and get help from other contributors.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Many online resources are available to help you learn about Git, pull requests, and issues. Look for online tutorials, documentation, and forums where you can ask questions and get help from other contributors.
```

### CNCF Resources

> **[The CNCF Contributor Strategy TAG (Technical Advisory Group)](https://github.com/cncf/tag-contributor-strategy/)**  is a group of experienced technical contributors who are dedicated to providing guidance and support to other contributors within the CNCF ecosystem. The main aim of this TAG is to ensure that all projects within the CNCF adhere to the highest technical standards, and that they are maintained and developed in a consistent and sustainable way. This includes advising on best practices for project governance, technical architecture, security, and interoperability, among other areas.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
**[The CNCF Contributor Strategy TAG (Technical Advisory Group)](https://github.com/cncf/tag-contributor-strategy/)**  is a group of experienced technical contributors dedicated to providing guidance and support to other contributors within the CNCF ecosystem. The main aim of this TAG is to ensure that all projects within the CNCF adhere to the highest technical standards and that they are maintained and developed consistently and sustainably. This includes advising on best practices for project governance, technical architecture, security, and interoperability, among other areas.
```

> The TAG also provides a forum for cross-project collaboration and knowledge-sharing, helping to foster a sense of community and cohesion within the CNCF ecosystem. They work closely with project maintainers, contributors, and other community members to provide guidance and support, and to ensure that all projects within the CNCF are able to thrive and evolve in a collaborative and inclusive manner.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The TAG also provides a forum for cross-project collaboration and knowledge-sharing, helping to foster a sense of community and cohesion within the CNCF ecosystem. They work closely with project maintainers, contributors, and other community members to provide guidance and support and to ensure that all projects within the CNCF can thrive and evolve collaboratively and inclusively.
```

> For new contributors, the TAG can be a valuable resource, providing guidance on technical issues, as well as offering advice on how to navigate the CNCF ecosystem and get involved in various projects. 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
For new contributors, the TAG can be a valuable resource, providing guidance on technical issues and offering advice on navigating the CNCF ecosystem and getting involved in various projects.
```

> **[The CNCF Mentoring WG (Working Group)](https://github.com/cncf/mentoring)** is an initiative aimed at providing support and guidance to new contributors looking to get involved in the CNCF community. The group focuses on creating a welcoming and inclusive environment for individuals of all backgrounds and skill levels to contribute to open source projects. One of the main objectives of the group is to identify and promote "good first issues," which are beginner-friendly tasks that can help new contributors gain confidence and familiarity with the project's codebase and development workflow. Be sure to visit the [CLOTributor](https://clotributor.dev/) website to discover great opportunities to become a Cloud Native contributor.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
**[The CNCF Mentoring WG (Working Group)](https://github.com/cncf/mentoring)** is an initiative aimed at providing support and guidance to new contributors looking to get involved in the CNCF community. The group focuses on creating a welcoming and inclusive environment for individuals of all backgrounds and skill levels to contribute to open source projects. One of the group's main objectives is to identify and promote "good first issues," which are beginner-friendly tasks that can help new contributors gain confidence and familiarity with the project's codebase and development workflow. Be sure to visit the [CLOTributor](https://clotributor.dev/) website to discover great opportunities to become a Cloud Native contributor.
```

Additionally, the Mentoring Working Group provides resources such as documentation, tutorials, and one-on-one mentorship to help new contributors navigate the project's technical and social aspects.

**Training material:** The [Linux Foundation](https://training.linuxfoundation.org/) offers a range of free and paid training materials and certifications that can help you upskill and enhance your knowledge in various areas, including cloud computing, DevOps, and open source technologies. 

> These resources include online courses, certifications, and hands-on training programs that are taught by experienced instructors and industry professionals. By taking advantage of these resources, you can gain the skills and knowledge you need to become a valuable contributor to open source projects and communities. 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
These resources include online courses, certifications, and hands-on training programs that experienced instructors and industry professionals teach. By taking advantage of these resources, you can gain the skills and knowledge you need to become a valuable contributor to open source projects and communities.
```

> ### Why open source projects look for new contributors, why should I care to join?

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
### Why do open source projects look for new contributors, and why should I care to join?
```

> Open source projects are always in need of new contributors because they rely on the community to continue growing and improving. By joining an open source project, you can not only improve your own skills and knowledge but also contribute to something that has the potential to make a difference in the world. You can also collaborate with like-minded individuals from all over the world, learn from others, and build a network that can benefit you in the future. Additionally, contributing to open source projects is a great way to give back to the community and make a positive impact.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Open source projects always need new contributors because they rely on the community to continue growing and improving. By joining an open source project, you can not only enhance your skills and knowledge but also contribute to something that has the potential to make a difference in the world. You can also collaborate with like-minded individuals worldwide, learn from others, and build a network that can benefit you in the future. Additionally, contributing to open source projects is a great way to give back to the community and make a positive impact.
```

### Read the Documentation

Before you start contributing to a project, it's important to read the documentation. Most projects have a README file that provides an overview of the project, how to set it up, and how to contribute. Read the documentation carefully to make sure you understand the project's goals, coding standards, and contribution guidelines.

It's also important to invest time in reading the project's mailing list threads, community forum discussions, and meeting minutes, as well as reviewing open and closed issues and pull requests in the project repository. By doing so, you can better understand the project's context, goals, and challenges, and develop a sense of the community's culture and values. This knowledge can help you ask more informed and relevant questions when reaching out to the community, and increase your chances of getting a helpful and constructive response.

### A language of their own

> The open source community can sometimes be overwhelming with its acronyms and technical terms. Newcomers might find it difficult to keep up with the jargon. However, there are ways to overcome this, such as taking the time to research and ask questions. Also, the Cloud Native Computing Foundation (CNCF) provides a helpful [glossary of commonly used terms](https://glossary.cncf.io/abstraction/) in the cloud native landscape. By utilizing this resource and proactively in seeking information, newcomers can better understand the community and its practices. Open-source communities aim to be collaborative and inclusive, and their members are generally welcoming to those willing to learn and contribute.

Reviewer 2: Fixing link to glossary so that it goes to the homepage and not a specific term.

```suggestion
The open source community can sometimes be overwhelming with its acronyms and technical terms. Newcomers might find it difficult to keep up with the jargon. However, there are ways to overcome this, such as taking the time to research and ask questions. Also, the Cloud Native Computing Foundation (CNCF) provides a helpful [glossary of commonly used terms](https://glossary.cncf.io/) in the cloud native landscape. By utilizing this resource and proactively in seeking information, newcomers can better understand the community and its practices. Open-source communities aim to be collaborative and inclusive, and their members are generally welcoming to those willing to learn and contribute.
```
